Welcome to session 112,
Safari and WebKit for
Web Content Developers.
That means you widget developers too.
I'm Adele Peterson.
I'm an engineer on the
Safari and WebKit team.
A little bit later,
we'll be hearing from my colleague,
Beth Dakin.
Today we're going to talk about
how you can take advantage of new
features in Safari and WebKit and new
technologies that we've gone to support.
There are three main topics
that we're going to cover today.
The first is JavaScript capabilities,
including built-in language
features and XML technologies.
The second is graphics,
specifically scalable
vector graphics and canvas.
And lastly, style,
specifically resolution
independence and CSS3.
But first,
before we get into all of that,
we're going to have a
little bit of a review.
I'd like to talk to you guys about
best practices for web compatibility.
So I was talking to a friend recently
who's a web developer and she was telling
me about how she spends hours and hours
getting her websites to be pixel perfect,
to get the behavior just right.
And then she goes to test her site in
other browsers and discovers she has many
more hours of work ahead of her to get it
to work in as many browsers as possible.
So this is a pretty common
problem for web developers.
So we want to give you a few tips on
how to get a leg up and increase your
chances of working in more web browsers.
So the first thing that I want
to recommend to you is that you
all do a little bit of research.
Google is your friend,
and there's lots of sites out there
that can help you find information
about how different browsers behave.
Specifically,
there's a great resource out there
called Quirks Mode at quirksmode.org
that has these great compatibility
tables to show you different
behavior in different browsers.
And that will give you some information
about how the browsers actually do work.
But if you want to find
out how they should work,
you may want to take a look at
the World Wide Web Consortium
website at w3.org.
And there you'll find
specifications for HTML,
CSS, SVG, and other technologies.
So the second thing that I'd
like to recommend is that
you all use standards mode.
And to do that,
use a document type declaration
that will trigger standards mode.
Now for those of you who don't know,
In standards mode,
most browsers will interpret your code
in the same standards-compliant way.
So this will greatly increase your
chances of working cross-browser.
So unless you're out there writing
1990s-style old school HTML,
you probably want to avoid those browser
quirks that existed for that old code.
So use a doc type like the
one I'm going to show you here
to trigger standards mode,
and you'll increase your chances
of working in more modern browsers.
Lastly,
I recommend that you validate your code.
There are some great tools out there.
Specifically,
there's a few validators at the
W3C website that will help you
find common problems in your code.
Things like misnested tags,
or a misenclosed tag,
or the incorrect casing.
Things that your eyes might
glaze over as you review your
website for the gazillionth time.
These are just automated tools to
help you find these problems quickly.
So those are three simple things that
you can do to give yourself a leg up
in the whole web compatibility game.
Research, use standards mode,
and validate your code.
OK, so now that we got the
basics out of the way,
let's talk about JavaScript capabilities.
So the things that I'm going to tell
you about today can be basically
broken up into two different sections.
First, built-in language features.
These are the types of things that
you can use as you're building a
JavaScript library or a framework.
And also, client-side XML processing.
These are things that fit right
into the whole Ajax story as far
as making dynamic content from
JavaScript using XML technologies.
So the first thing that I want to tell
you about is called getters and setters.
This is a really cool way that you
can add active properties to objects.
So what does that mean?
Well, it means that you can make
your properties behind the
scenes act like functions.
So let me show you an
example of how that works.
So in this example,
we have a circle object.
It has a radius property
and two functions set on it,
getDiameter and setDiameter
that do some basic math.
Now, getDiameter and setDiameter,
it might be nice if the
diameter was just a property.
From the caller's perspective,
the caller doesn't really care what
goes on in getDiameter and setDiameter.
It just wants to get and set.
So in this example,
you can see how diameter
can be used as a property.
And you still might want to do
that same math behind the scenes.
So here's how that works.
Here I've defined a circle object with
a radius property and two functions,
a get function and a set function,
where the name of that
function is the name of the
property that I'm going to use.
Now you'll see here that the
content of those functions is
fairly simple in this example.
This actually gives you a lot of power.
You could add validation code
there so that no one could
set a negative diameter.
Or you could add type checking or
even make this a read-only property by
leaving out the set function altogether.
So this gives you a lot of
control from behind the scenes,
and it can still appear as if
diameter is just a property.
So you can add these active
properties to any object.
And from the
JavaScript library perspective,
you're giving your caller--
you're letting your caller sort
of ignore all the dirty work
that's done behind the scenes.
And you can organize that in a
pretty cool and powerful way.
OK, moving on.
So the next thing I want to tell
you about is called DOM prototypes.
This is a way for you to make DOM object
prototypes available for modification.
So why would you want to
do something like this?
Well, I'm going to show you an example,
and let's set up a little situation here.
OK, so let's say you start a new
job for a company that involves
dealing with a lot of legacy code.
And the programmer before you designed
this whole web application only for IE.
So there's IE-specific extensions
sprinkled all throughout the code.
Now,
you could go through and you could find
every instance of these IE-specific
extensions and replace them with
standard calls that will work in
browsers like Safari and Firefox.
But using DOM prototypes,
you can actually add that IE-specific
functionality onto your objects
so that they can be accessible.
[Transcript missing]
So here's how you do it.
You'll see at the top here we
have node.prototype.attachEvent.
I'm just finding this function on the
node prototype so that this will be
available for all nodes in your document.
There's some very simple code here
that does a little string magic
on the arguments and then passes
them right on to addEventListener.
So you could add this
onto your prototype,
and then any caller that calls
attachEvent will work in browsers
like Safari and Firefox just by
calling the addEventListener function
through this prototype addition.
So again, this gives you a lot of power.
And like Keanu,
you can bend objects to your will.
OK, so the next technology I want to tell
you about is called XSLT Processor.
Now,
this is a JavaScript object that lets
you use XSLT transformations from script.
So many of you may be familiar with
XSLT as a way to apply transforms
to XML data as you're setting
up your data on your server.
But this is a way you
can do that on the fly.
And this technology is already in use for
things like Google Maps and Zillow.com
to do the map markers on the fly.
So here's an example of how that works.
So let's say you have your data and
your style sheet both on the server.
And you use something from script
like XML HTTP request to get
that data into documents that
you can access from JavaScript.
So in script, you go and create an
XSLT processor object.
And that object allows you to specify
a style sheet and then apply that
style sheet to a document and have
that transformed document or document
fragment write available from script.
So you could apply your
XSLT transformation in script and
then append your document fragment
to a different part of your page.
So this allows you to really
mix it up a little bit as far as
XSLT goes and do things on the fly.
And this fits right into the
whole Ajax Web 2.0 story.
It just gives you another
technology that you can use.
So lastly, I want to tell you about
our support for XPath.
This is a way you can use XPath
queries right from JavaScript.
Some of you who have used
XSLT may be familiar with using
XPath as a way to navigate your
XSLT and your XML documents.
Well, now you can use that directly to
navigate your HTML documents and
any other XML documents in Safari.
So let me show you an example of how
that could be beneficial as opposed
to just using standard DOM calls.
So in this example, we have a document,
and we have a few different
divs in our document.
Specifically, we want to find all the
divs that have foo class.
Now, you could find these by
walking your DOM tree,
inspecting each element,
seeing if it's a div,
seeing if it has that class,
and a few different functions.
But using an XPath query,
you can do this in sort of
a short and concise way.
Basically, you define a query,
you evaluate that query,
and you manipulate the result.
So on the first line here,
you'll see the XPath query.
And even if you're not
familiar with XPath,
it's very simple syntax.
We're looking for all divs
of the class foo class.
On the second line,
you'll see we evaluate that
query and store the result,
which is something
called an XPath result.
And once we have that XPath result,
there are lots of things
we can do with it.
But in this example,
we're using a call called iterate
next on that XPath result.
And basically,
with just a few lines of code,
we can iterate through all these
divs of foo class in the document and
perform whatever we want on those divs.
Here, I'm just displaying the inner text.
But you can do anything you want.
So just three simple
steps-- creating a query,
evaluating it,
and manipulating that result.
So those are just a few technologies that
you can add to your tool belt and use
as you're creating JavaScript libraries
and Ajax applications.
Check them out and see
if they'll work for you.
OK, so next I want to talk a
little bit about graphics,
specifically scalar vector
graphics and canvas.
SVG, scalable vector graphics.
What is it?
Well, it's an XML language
for defining graphics.
So you define all your circles and lines
and paths and fills all within XML.
Because it's XML,
you have a document object model.
Because you have a DOM,
JavaScript can manipulate
that DOM and create animations
and modifications on the fly.
And right there in the name,
scalable vector graphics are scalable.
Yay!
And this will be important in
the future as more and more
browsers have support for SVG,
and we're looking for
a scalable solution.
So SVG is what I like to
call an emerging technology.
So what does that mean?
Well, SVG has actually been around
for a really long time,
but we're just starting to
see it come into its own,
I think.
Safari has recently added
this native SVG support,
and you're starting to see
more and more complete native
support in other browsers.
But previously,
you could only view SVG content using
a plugin like the Adobe SVG plugin,
and that limited the scope of
what you could really do with SVG.
So you're starting to see,
as browsers add this native support,
more and more powerful
applications of SVG.
So how do you create SVG content?
Well, there's a few really easy ways
and a few more difficult ways.
Graphics programs like Adobe Illustrator
and the open source Inkscape allow
you to just export right to SVG.
So anything that you can create
in these graphics applications,
you export right to SVG.
Now,
for those of you who love to write XML,
you can hand roll your content
using the SVG language.
The W3C has that specification
right on their website,
and there's some great demos out there
and tutorials to help you get started.
So like I said before,
I think what you're going to start
to see in the future is more and more
complete native support in browsers.
And as that happens,
you're going to see it sort
of spread like wildfire,
I think.
So let me show you a demo of
how this can be really powerful.
Demo?
All righty.
So SVG is available in the
Leopard preview that you all have,
and it's also available
in the WebKit nightlies,
which we'll talk a little
bit more about later.
So how many of you have played
with the World Clock Widget?
Anyone?
It's pretty hot.
So I made a little demo in SVG that
resembles the World Clock widget,
and I think it's pretty cool.
So some of you may not know this,
but the rotating hands
in the World Clock widget
were made using Canvas.
So I'm going to show you how to do
that in SVG and how easy it can be.
All right, so here's my clock.
Ooh.
OK, so let's check it out a
little bit and watch it scale,
watch how it doesn't lose any
of its detail and keeps ticking.
OK.
So you're actually going to be surprised
at how little code this took to work.
It took me one morning when
I was just messing around
to get this up and running.
And I think you guys will
find this pretty exciting.
Let's take a look at it.
Okay, so here we go here.
I want to have you guys take note
that in the body's onload handler,
I call start clock.
We'll look at that in a
minute to see what that does.
Here comes the SVG goodness.
Here I've defined a linear gradient
that I'm going to use later to
make the sexy black background.
Here I draw the clock using a circle.
There's my gradient.
I draw the numbers on the
clock using some magic numbers.
And here I draw the hands with
a few polygons and some circles
for the center of the clock.
What I want you to take note of here is
that I gave each of these polygons an ID,
hours hand, minutes hand,
and seconds hand,
so I can get to those elements later.
Now, when I first drew these,
I had them drawing pointed
straight up so that I could
rotate them however I want them.
And if I weren't ever
going to start the clock,
they would all just be drawn straight up.
Okay, so let's take a look
at the JavaScript here.
Start clock updates the clock and
then calls set interval so that
update clock gets called every second.
There are other ways you could do this,
but this was the easiest.
Update clock gets the current date
and time and calls a function called
rotate hands with the current hours,
minutes, and seconds.
Oops.
Okay, rotate hands is actually
a fairly short function.
Here, I store the minutes hand,
hours hand, and seconds hand.
I can also use the seconds hand by
calling get element by ID and storing
those in a variable and variables.
And then I do just a little bit of
math to calculate the correct angle.
I construct a string using this
rotate function and the angle
I've calculated centered around
the center point of the clock.
And then, with these three lines of code,
I rotate to the correct position.
I set the attribute transform
with my rotate function,
and that's it.
That's all I need to do.
It does that every second,
and that's how I have a working clock.
So in about 20 lines of code here,
I have a pretty kick-ass looking clock.
Let's take a look.
Let's go back to the slides.
Slides, please.
So I highly recommend you check that
out and see what it can do for you.
OK.
So next, let's talk about Canvas and the
changes we've made to Canvas.
So for those of you who
aren't familiar with it,
canvas is a way you can dynamically
render scriptable bitmaps.
Define a canvas element,
and then you can draw into
that bitmap any time you like.
So the canvas element has
an interesting history.
This is an element we
introduced in Safari 2.0,
and it was used in tons
of widgets out there.
And because it became so popular,
it was adopted by other browser engines.
And because other browser
engines adopted it,
and it was so popular,
we worked with the What Working group
to define a specification.
So through all of this,
we decided that there were
a few improvements that
we could make to Canvas.
And I want to make sure that you guys
know about those improvements so that not
only can you take full advantage of them,
but you can make sure to update
your widgets and your websites to
work well within these improvements.
OK, the first improvement that I'm
going to tell you about is that
Canvas now supports fallback content.
And for you, this means that a close
tag is now required.
So in this example,
between your begin tag and your end tag,
there's some alternate content
that browsers that don't
support the canvas element,
like IE, will display.
So this gives you an opportunity
to provide that alternate content.
And if you don't provide an end tag,
we won't know where that
fallback content ends.
So include your close tag.
All right, next,
the size of the bitmap for the
canvas element does not have to
be the same size of the element.
This is a change.
So what this means for you is that width
and height attributes need to be defined.
So in this example,
I've defined a width and
height of 150 and 150,
and that defines the size of the bitmap.
But you can define an entirely
different size in CSS for what
you want the element to draw in.
So for this 150 by 150 bitmap,
you could define an entirely
different size in CSS for what
you want the element to draw in.
So for this 150 by 150 bitmap,
you could define an entirely
different size in CSS for what
you want the element to draw in.
OK, next, drawing into the canvas bitmap
is no longer tied to rendering.
This was a common request we heard that
people wanted to be able to draw into the
bitmap before layout had even occurred.
So what this means is that if you're
expecting the bitmap to be clear,
you're going to have
to clear it yourself.
There were some instances before
where a rendering change would
cause the bitmap to clear,
and that doesn't happen anymore.
So go ahead and use this clear act
function to clear the bitmap yourself.
OK, lastly, functions like fill, stroke,
and clip no longer clear
the path when they're done.
So this means that you need
to add a begin path call
before describing a new path.
Makes sense, right?
So just before you go
to draw that new path,
add begin path.
So those are the improvements
that we have added to Canvas.
And I highly recommend that you
check out your current widgets
and websites and make sure that
they work with these improvements.
So just to wrap up the graphics section,
we talked a little bit about
scalable vector graphics,
which is an XML language that provides
that-- for which the graphics that
you draw exist in that XML document,
so you can modify it later.
And for canvas,
it's the scriptable bitmap
where you draw into it,
and then that data only
exists as those pixels.
So please take a look at the
improvements to canvas and the
power of SVG and see how that fits
into your current web development.
So I'd like to invite my colleague
Beth Dakin up here to tell
you a little bit about style.
Thanks, Adele.
Hi, everybody.
Let's talk about style.
So there are two main things that
I want to talk to you all about today.
First,
creating high definition web content.
We think this is going to be a really
important thing in the coming years as
resolution independence really takes off.
And secondly,
I want to talk to you about CSS3.
Specifically,
I want to tell you about some
cool new properties that we've
implemented in our browser that we
want you all to take advantage of.
Some of them will be really helpful in
creating high definition web content,
and all of them are really helpful
for making your sites look awesome.
So first, let's talk about creating
high definition web content.
So if you all were at
Bertrand's keynote yesterday,
you heard Peter Graffagnino talking about
resolution independence and how that's
something we really want for Mac OS X.
So that's sort of what's inspiring this
whole high definition web content thing.
Because as we're making our
operating system take advantage of
these extra pixels and the details
that you can gain from them,
we want you all to be able to
do the same with your websites,
because this is a really great
opportunity to have your sites
and widgets look even more
incredible on certain displays.
So before we talk about creating
high definition web content,
let's do a little bit of a review
so that we're all on the same
page with resolution independence.
Let's talk about what it is,
how it will affect your
existing web content,
and finally, why you should care at all.
So first things first,
what is resolution independence anyway?
Okay, so I had this 15-inch
PowerBook that I was using for
a while for a couple years.
It was a great machine.
I totally loved it.
It was awesome.
But then a couple months ago,
I upgraded to a MacBook Pro.
So there are a lot of obvious
differences between these two machines.
You know, my MacBook Pro is way faster.
It's Intel inside.
It was really exciting.
But the very first thing that
I noticed as a difference when
I turned on my new machine is that
everything was a little bit smaller.
And sure enough,
another difference between these
two machines is that even though
they both have 15-inch screens,
my MacBook Pro has a
slightly better resolution.
Now, I'm sure you've all experienced
this to a certain extent.
Maybe you've even used one of those
really tricked-out monitors on a
PC with an incredibly high resolution.
You have these small little
texts that's hard to see,
but you have all this space.
But even if you haven't experienced that,
I'm sure that you can imagine that if
we keep going down this road of creating
higher and higher resolution hardware
without doing anything to ourselves,
we're going to end up with a software.
Soon everything is just going to be
itty-bitty little dots on the screen,
and you'll barely be
able to see it at all.
So the idea behind resolution
independence is that there's
more than one thing that you can
gain from these extra pixels.
You can gain real estate,
which you're already getting,
but you can also gain detail.
Everything should be able to be
whatever size you want it to be,
and you should be able to choose
to get extra detail from these
pixels if that's what you want.
So let's talk a little bit about some
of the jargon you're going to hear me
and other people saying about this.
First, DPI stands for dots per inch.
A lot of you probably
know this already anyway.
This is the idea that there's
hardware that's being created
with more and more dots per inch.
More dots, basically.
So, *audience laughs*
Mac OS X has had this
historical assumption that
you're operating at 72 DPI,
regardless of the actual
DPI of your device.
So another thing you'll hear
me saying a lot is a scale
factor or a device pixel ratio.
So this is, again,
the idea with resolution independence,
you can apply a scale factor to your UI.
And this is based on this
historical 72 DPI assumption,
so that 72 DPI corresponds
to a 1.0 scale factor.
All right.
So what does this mean in terms of
where the scale factor comes from?
A little bit of math for you.
You have 72 DPI.
It corresponds to a 1.0 scale factor.
So let's say you have
a 1600 by 1200 display.
Let's say it's 15 inches, whatever.
You know,
it's this really high-resolution screen,
but everything's too small.
You're not really happy.
You wish that it looked like it did on
your old-school 1024 by 768 display.
You wish everything were the same size.
So in order to achieve that,
you would have to apply a
very memorable scale factor,
1600 divided by 1024 equals 1.5625,
to the user interface of your new
high-resolution device so that
everything would be the same size
as it was on your old device.
But of course, you would have to apply a
very memorable scale factor.
you would be gaining detail
from all of these extra pixels.
All right, how will this affect your
existing web content?
The first thing that I need
to stress here is that a PX,
the pixels that you specify
in your style sheets,
do not correspond to actual
pixels on the device.
One PX is not a device pixel.
They're not the same thing.
OK, so what is a CSS pixel if it's
not the same as one of the
little dots on your device that
you're getting more and more of?
It's a relative unit inside the web view.
Though it is not specified
in any standards,
it is agreed upon by all
browsers that 96 of these
CSS pixels correspond to one inch.
The idea here is that you
have these absolute units,
such as the inch,
and you want them to look something
like an inch in real life as you
move between different devices.
So obviously,
if you have an inch specified
in your style sheet on a really,
really low resolution device,
it's going to be represented
by a different number of actual
pixels on the screen than it will
have to be represented on a very,
very high resolution device.
But you still want it to look
something like an inch in both spaces.
And in order for the entire internet
and the web not to completely
misrender between these devices,
you need to have a consistent
relationship between your
CSS pixel and your absolute units,
such as the inch, that always need to
look roughly the same.
So therefore,
96 CSS pixels equals one inch.
That's the relationship
that has been established.
Finally, we scale them for you.
We scale them for you.
You don't need to worry about
changing your style sheets,
the numbers and measurements
that you've specified,
to account for resolution independence,
because it's all being taken
care of for you in WebKit.
The same things will work.
They'll just scale up
as you want them to.
All right, so why do you care?
So as I was just explaining,
for the most part, it's all automatic.
Your text is going to look awesome.
We've put a lot of work into WebKit and
the other parts of Mac OS X so
that as everything scales up,
it's going to have incredible
detail and just look fantastic.
So text, text decoration,
all of that stuff looks fantastic.
Form controls look impeccable.
Borders, basically everything that
WebKit draws looks amazing.
So...
So there are some things
that WebKit doesn't draw,
really.
It displays.
And probably the most notable
example of that are images.
If an image is not a
high resolution image,
WebKit can't make it look
like a high resolution image.
So the idea of making high definition
web content really comes back to images.
There's a good analogy here
to be had with television.
So you have your old TV,
you watch your shows on it, it's great,
it's fine.
You decide to upgrade, though,
to a high definition television.
You can view the same content on your
new fancy high resolution display.
And it looks pretty much like
it did on your old television.
Maybe it even looks a little bit better.
But there is some content that's
made specifically for this device,
content that really takes
advantage of the hardware,
specifically HDTV.
This content just looks incredible.
Your old content will work fine,
but you have an opportunity here to
take advantage of the extra pixels
that you're being given and make
your web content look even more
incredible than it ever did before,
just like HDTV.
So again, in terms of creating high
resolution web content,
it comes down to finding ways to
integrate high resolution images
and artwork into your web content.
So that's what I'm going to talk
about for the rest of our time talking
about high definition web content.
All right, so earlier Adele was
telling you all about SVG.
You know, it scales,
so you might be thinking,
this could be a great solution
for high-definition web content.
It will look fine on regular devices.
It will scale up perfectly
with other devices,
so you don't need to worry about it.
So in a lot of ways,
this is a great idea.
But there are some problems with
SVG and other scalable vector graphics,
such as PDF, at least right now,
so that it's not really
a great solution today.
For instance,
there is the image tag problem.
Safari is the only browser that supports
PDF as the valid source of an image tag.
So if you use PDFs, it would only work in
Safari with your image tags.
Safari and Firefox,
neither of them support SVG as
a valid source for an image tag.
So basically what this means is
that to integrate these image
formats into your web content,
you would have to completely
abolish the image tag.
This would be a whole
lot of work for you,
So it's really not terribly ideal,
at least right now.
What's more,
it wouldn't work in old versions of
browsers that currently support SVG.
Won't work in browsers that
don't support SVG at all.
And even though this might
be a great solution someday,
it will never be a very good
solution for photographs.
Vector graphics just aren't the
best format for photographs.
So resolution-independent
images might work great for
high-definition web content someday,
and we think that they will, but not yet.
All right, so what about just using
high resolution images?
What about replacing all of the
artwork that you currently have
in your web content just with high
resolution versions of the same thing?
So in a lot of ways,
this seems like a great idea.
It's a simple bait and switch.
You just create high resolution
versions of your artwork,
replace the little paths that
you have in your content.
It's fine, right?
Well, see,
there are some problems here also.
Primarily, these high resolution
images tend to be huge.
They're big files.
You're going to have
everybody downloading them,
even people who can't take advantage of
all of the extra detail that you get,
people who don't have high
resolution devices to view them on.
So everyone's going to be
downloading these huge images.
You're going to have to store them all.
Basically,
it's going to increase bandwidth.
It's going to make things slower.
It's going to clog the tubes.
So we've talked about two solutions
that aren't going to work.
So why don't we talk
about something that will?
This is an idea that we've come up with
called the resolution-determined image.
The idea here is that you
could have images available
of different resolutions.
And you could have a style
sheet in which you specify
exactly what you have available.
And then the style sheet is
smart enough to know which
one to display in the browser.
This can be achieved
with CSS3 media queries.
And I'll be talking about
specifically how to do this later,
but the idea here is that the resolution
of the device that is viewing the content
and the scale factor that is applied to
it determines which image you select,
which image is downloaded by the user,
and which image they end
up seeing in their browser.
So it's a resolution-determined image.
CSS3 media queries give you a way
to conditionally include certain
style rules based on characteristics
of the device that's viewing them.
And we'll get to how to
do that in a little bit.
Another thing is that we've extended
the DOM so that you can access the
device pixel ratio through your
JavaScript with window.devicepixelratio.
So this is pretty cool.
This has some obvious applications.
In that,
if you're setting the source of an image
tag or an image through your JavaScript,
then you can obviously select a
higher resolution image if you know
that you have a scale factor applied.
But you all know the power of JavaScript.
You can do crazy things with it.
You could render an entirely different
web page if you wanted if somebody were
viewing it with a scale factor applied.
And why you would want to do that,
I'm not sure.
But you can.
So this is a really powerful tool,
and we want you all to know about
it and take advantage of it.
If you want.
So for creating high
definition web content,
we think this is going to be really
important in the coming years.
And this is an ongoing discussion
we want to keep having with other
browser vendors and people like
yourselves about the best way to do it.
But right now,
we think that some great ways to do
it are to use resolution determined
images and to take advantage of
the fact that you can access the
device pixel ratio through the DOM.
That is something, by the way,
that is currently an extension
that we've applied to Safari,
and we're pushing it
into standardization,
much like we did with Canvas,
so that hopefully it will soon be
implemented in other browsers as well.
All right.
Let's talk about CSS3.
I'm going to show you how to do some
of these high definition web content
things at the beginning of this section,
too.
So first, a little bit about CSS3.
It's a specification being
developed by the W3C.
It is broken up into modules.
Most of them are still drafts.
So what that means is that
they can still change.
And for that reason,
for the properties that
we've implemented from CSS3,
we've appended the -webkit prefix.
This is a pretty standard
thing to do in browsers.
For instance, in Firefox,
they append the -moz prefix to things
that are still in the draft stage.
It's just us saying that we know
that this could still change.
And once the specification
gets beyond the draft stage,
we'll make sure we match what
the final situation is with the
whole thing and remove the prefix.
So let's get into the properties.
First, background size.
For those of you who have used
a background image before,
you know that when you
use a background image,
there is no way to specify what size
you want one tile of that image to be.
Of course, not without background size.
With the image tag,
you can specify a width and height
as attributes so that regardless
of the intrinsic size of the image,
you could have it appeared, shrunken,
or scaled up in your content,
whatever you want.
So this is sort of a way to do that
same thing with your background images.
Here's an example of
how you would use it.
Background size expects two values,
lengths or percentages, usually.
If you give them lengths,
like pixel units,
it will obviously appear
that specific length.
With percentages,
you're saying that you want one tile
of this background image to take
up the given percentage of whatever
space this background image is tiling.
So here I'm saying that I want my image,
cupcake.ping,
to take up exactly 50% of the background
horizontally and exactly 50% of the
background vertically for one tile,
which means that I want the
image to appear four times.
So here's what it looks like in Safari.
And now Firefox does not
yet support background size,
although they will soon, I'm sure.
So here's what it looks like in Firefox,
where the cupcake is its intrinsic size.
So another really cool thing
about background size is that it
will always hold onto this rule.
So here I've specified
the rule on the body.
So as I grow and shrink my web view,
as I shrink my Safari window,
the size of my body is going to change.
But this 50%/50% will always hold.
So here I've grown it.
And so as I grew my window,
I still have exactly
four cupcakes in Safari.
Again, in Firefox,
it's still its intrinsic size.
Here I've shrunk it,
so I have squishy cupcakes.
If you didn't want to have
the squishy cupcake effect,
you could specify auto
for one of the two values,
either horizontal or vertical.
And that-- that dimension would assume
whatever value it needed to in order to
maintain the aspect ratio of the image.
And here in Firefox,
we just have the tops of cupcakes.
So let's talk about how this can be
applied to high definition web content.
So I mentioned earlier that high
resolution images are often really huge.
And earlier I meant it in
terms of their size in memory.
But I also mean it in
terms of their size.
They're often these really huge images.
So you might have-- you might have
a high resolution image that you
want to use as a background image
that's tiling a smaller space.
And so background size is
really useful for that.
Here I have an image, peacock high res,
that is a really huge image.
It's something like 1,600 by 1,200.
But I'm saying I want it to fit in a
div that has a width of 480 pixels.
And I don't want a squishy peacock,
so I've specified auto
in my vertical direction.
So here's what it looks like in Safari.
Again, it's shrunk down the image so that
it fits nicely into your small div.
And just to show you what this
looks like without background size,
here's what it looks like in Firefox.
You may recognize this as the upper
left hand corner of our peacock,
the first 480 pixels horizontally
and however much vertically.
So again,
this is another reason why just replacing
all the artwork in your web content
with high resolution versions of the
same thing is not a great solution.
Because you're going to run into
edge cases like this where you-- just
specifying width and height doesn't work,
like with background images.
So let's talk about using
the same example with a
resolution determined image,
CSS3 media queries.
I mentioned these earlier.
Again, this is the idea that you can have
rules in your style sheet that
will apply conditionally based
on characteristics of the device
that is viewing the web content.
So you can query about different
characteristics of the device,
for instance,
the width and height of the viewport,
the screen dimensions.
You could create a style.
You could create a style rule
that applies only if you're
printing to screen at all,
so that if you were
printing the content to,
say, a printer,
the style rule would not apply.
We've extended the things
that you can query about to
include the device pixel ratio,
so that you can apply a rule based only
if you have a scale factor applied.
So here's how to use this.
You'll recognize the top part
of this as pretty much the same
style rule that I had previously,
except I'm saying that I want
to use a low resolution version
of my peacock as the default.
This version of the peacock
is actually the exact size to
fit in the background image.
So it's what you would be doing now if
you had a background image like this.
But then I've specified a media query
below it that says that if I have a user
scale factor applied of two or greater,
I want to instead choose to include a
high resolution version of the image.
So here's what it looks like
normally in Safari again.
Looks the same.
But look, now it works in Firefox too.
Yay.
So now the next screenshot
I'm going to show you is the
same content in Firefox with a
scale factor applied to my UI.
So I've applied a 2.0 scale factor.
You can all do this in Quartz
debug now on your tiger machines or
your leopard machines if you want.
So everything just looks big
because it's being viewed on
not a high resolution display.
So here's what it looks like in Firefox.
You know, it looks fine.
It's the same image,
sort of stretched up a little bit.
But here's what it looks like in Safari.
How much better is that?
Wait, you want to see that again?
Hold on.
So without the media query,
Safari would look the
same as Firefox would.
But Safari understands the media query,
so it's able to understand
to choose the high resolution
version of the image instead.
And it's really taking advantage of
the extra pixels that we have because
we have a scale factor applied.
All right, let's move on and talk
about something else,
border radius.
So I'm sure you all use the internet,
and you've noticed probably that there
are rectangles all over the internet.
But sometimes you don't want
just a regular rectangle.
You want a rectangle
that has rounded corners.
And so if any of you have created
web content that has rounded corners,
you probably know that it's
kind of a pain in the ass.
You have to do all kinds of
fancy things with images.
It's really hard.
So border radius is a much easier
way to achieve that same thing.
It's a much easier way to get nice,
rounded corners on any of
your rectangular elements.
So we ran into a use
case for this ourselves.
I'm sure you all
recognize our error page.
When we were going through and assessing
all of the artwork that we have as
a part of our application so that we
could get high resolution versions of
it for a resolution-independent world,
we saw that we were doing our error
page with all of these images.
And it seemed really ridiculous to
get high resolution images of these
little lines and tiny little corners.
So we decided to do it
with border radius instead.
And so this is actually
done with border radius.
It looks exactly the same.
I'd show you a before and after,
but there's really no point,
because it looks the same.
So here's your before and after.
Basically, border radius expects you
to specify two values.
You pretend you have a rectangle
with an ellipse in each corner,
and you specify the horizontal
radius of the ellipse and the
vertical radius of the ellipse.
This gives you a lot of flexibility with
the kind of curves that you can get.
You can also have each of your
corners have different curves,
but most of the time you
probably aren't going to do that.
So here's a really simple
example of how to use this.
This is if you had a circle
in each corner with a
horizontal and vertical radius,
both of 60 pixels.
And here you have a nice, beautiful,
rounded rectangle.
Yay.
OK, a few more properties,
or maybe this is the last one.
I forget.
Border image.
So border image gives you an
easy way to use an image as
the border of your element.
What you do is you take an image
that you want to use as the border,
and you specify four values that
cut your image up into nine pieces.
The first one is how far down the image
you want the border on the top to be.
And then you specify the right,
the bottom, and the left.
And this, as you can see,
breaks your image up into nine pieces.
You have your edges, your corners,
and your middle.
And they'll all be either stretched
or tiled in their respective
parts of your element that you're
specifying border image on.
And here's a simple
example of how to do that.
I said that I want those lines to come
in 25% of the image in each direction.
And there it is.
I've been framed.
OK, so we've talked about high
definition web content in CSS3.
We think that other browsers
are going to-- well,
we know that other browsers are going
to start or continue implementing CSS3.
So soon these properties
will be available in a lot
of other places as well.
A lot of other browsers
are working on them.
We think that they're really
powerful for creating high
definition web content in some cases,
and in general, just making your existing
web content totally hot.
So we've covered all our main topics
here-- JavaScript capabilities,
graphics, and style.
Hopefully you've learned a few things.
There was a lot we talked about today.
But you can't leave yet,
because there is one more thing.
So--
Those of you who have been
following our open source
project know about this already,
so it's not as exciting for you,
but it's still pretty damn cool.
We have some new tools
under construction.
Our open source project gives us the
ability to sort of have these works
in progress that we can put out there,
so these are all available
through our nightlies,
nightly.webkit.org.
I strongly encourage you
all to check them out.
And so the first thing I want to tell
you about is our new Web Inspector.
This is really awesome.
People have been wanting one
of these in Safari for a while.
It gives you a really
great way to walk your DOM,
see all of the style
rules that are applied,
different metrics.
It's really great for
debugging your content,
and also just for seeing how people
did cool things on other sites.
It's really handy.
Also,
we were able to get this really custom,
beautiful look out of it because our
Web Inspector itself is created mostly
with HTML and CSS and JavaScript,
and we think it looks pretty great.
We think it's pretty awesome.
We also would like to tell you
about our new JavaScript debugger,
Dracera.
This is taking advantage
of the same-- Yay!
Finally!
This is taking advantage of the same
JavaScript debugging capabilities
that we made available for Dashcode.
But we thought maybe you'd want
to debug your other WebKit apps,
too.
So now you can debug through Safari,
and you can attach Dracera to
any of your WebKit apps and
debug your web content there.
You can set breakpoints, step through.
It's pretty great.
And now I would like to
call upon my colleague,
Alice Liu, who is going to give you a
demo of how to use these tools.
Hi, thanks, Beth.
Hi, I'm Alice Liu,
and I'm also a Safari engineer.
Beth just told you about a couple of
debugging tools that we've released
in our WebKit open source project.
And they were developed by
another Safari engineer,
Tim Hatcher.
I'm going to tell you a little
bit about how to use them
Demo machine, please.
Oh, we're already here.
OK.
So the Web Inspector can provide
you a wealth of information about
your document all in one place.
To get to it,
I'm going to go to a web page
that I think is pretty cool.
And all we do is we pick something
on the page and we Control-click
and we say Inspect Element.
And this is going to bring
up the Web Inspector.
That's hot.
So here's a web inspector,
and in this window here--
can you see that well?
Let me see.
Okay.
So, sorry.
All right.
We'll stay here.
So this is a web inspector,
and in this window here
is your document markup.
And if I click on one of these nodes,
it's going to highlight the
corresponding node over here.
So let's pick something like...
This Div intro,
and it's going to highlight the
intro for us in a red outline.
So let's see that again for another Div.
I'm going to pick the next one,
which is this one.
So I really like this feature because
it gives me a great visual connection
between my document markup and
how it's laid out on the page.
So if you have kind of messy code,
it's going to really help you in finding
out where your things are and stuff.
Also,
it's great for finding out how other
people's websites are laid out as well.
Okay, so down here we have different tabs
for different types of information.
So in the node panel,
we're given node information
such as element attributes
and links and namespaces.
So I'm going to,
this is a good debugging tool,
so I'm going to debug
something about this web page.
I actually like... how these links look.
They're kind of nice.
So let's find out what's behind them.
So they turn colors
when I hover over them.
Let's find out more about them.
I'm going to inspect this
element by control clicking on
it and choosing inspect element.
And then it jumps right to it.
So node information,
the href is articles.
Next we have style.
I'll come back to that in a second.
Over here in metrics,
we are given the margin, border,
and padding radius.
Let me zoom in on that for you.
So that's nice, right?
And then, over in properties,
we've got all the
JavaScript properties and their values.
So let's go back to style.
Over here in style,
we have a wealth of style information.
So if we have computed style highlighted,
what we're told down here is
all the style properties that
are actually applied in the end.
And in this window,
we have all the other style rules,
and they're listed in the order in
which they're imported and applied.
So we've got this asterisk rule,
it sets some values, and as we go down,
we see other properties listed.
If your properties have a
strike through through them,
it means that they're overridden
by another rule after it.
So we can see that color
and border-bottom have been
overruled by something else.
Here's border-color,
something else color, yeah, there we go.
So let me do this again.
And we actually have one more rule.
So here's the hover rule.
And this is why it looks so cool.
So basically, when I hover over it,
I find out that, oh,
the color turns black.
The background color is set also,
and we add a border bottom.
So that's just how those
links are implemented.
So that's the Web Inspector.
And we know that it's going to
help you debug your websites,
how they look,
and also help you investigate other
people's websites that you admire.
OK, so the next tool I'm going to show
you is our JavaScript debugger.
So we know that many of you have been
wanting a good JavaScript debugging
solution for quite a while.
And recently,
there have been two additions to this
area for you web content developers.
One is Dashcode,
which is available on your Leopard CD.
And the other one is Rosera,
which is our open source solution.
They both take advantage
of the same technology.
That we enhance JavaScript core
to enable this debugging.
Rosera actually has the advantage that
it can attach to any WebKit application.
So that means that it's
not just for Safari,
it's for your WebKit application as well.
So I'm going to show you how to use
Rosera with a very simple example.
So Drisera I have in the doc here.
And when you launch Drisera,
it will ask you to attach
to a WebKit application.
And right now, I only have one running.
But in this window is where you would
also see your WebKit application.
So we'll attach to WebKit.
Let me just rearrange my windows here.
And I have a canned demo here.
So this is a really simple
just arithmetic demo.
So let's use 10 and 5.
And 10 divided by 5, that works.
10 times 5 works.
10 minus 5 works.
But 10 plus 5 doesn't work.
So I'm going to debug this 10 plus 5.
Over here in the Drisera window,
the Drisera window should actually
look pretty familiar to you.
It kind of looks like Xcode,
and because of this,
it should be intuitive for you to use.
So here's a gutter,
and we can set breakpoints.
And over here is a
drop-down window for files.
I'm going to go over here,
and I'm going to set a breakpoint
in the onClick handler.
Let me show you this,
just so you can see that.
So here's onClick.
So Drisera has the advantage of
being able to set breakpoints
in inline JavaScript and
not just within script tags.
Okay, so I set the breakpoint.
We're going to start.
Okay,
I have broke in the onClick handler,
and we're going to step in.
Also, just like Xcode,
if you want to remove breakpoints,
you just drag it out.
So let's step into this function,
calculate.
And let's step over.
Result is 0.
Operand 1 is set.
Operand 2 is set.
And operator is set.
So we're going to fall
into the case of the plus.
And we see that the
result ends up to be 105.
So basically,
my mistake is in my code here.
Something cool about Josera,
the JavaScript debugger,
is we have a console here.
And the console is able to
execute any JavaScript expression.
So I can check values.
Sorry.
Let me show you closer.
Oops.
OK.
Result is 105.
So this is a mistake.
So I need to fix this.
And the console will let
you try out fixes before you
actually change your code.
So let's try something.
I think what I want to do is-- I guess
I could do something like parsing.
Op1 plus parseInt Op2.
And it's 15, which is what we wanted.
So this is exactly what I should
do instead of just plus.
So this is just a little taste
of how Drisera can improve your
JavaScript debugging workflow.
And that's about it, I guess.
Let me close this up.
Can you get the slide machine, please?
Okay.
So, just a little reminder that these
open source debugging tools are
actually still under development.
And what that means for you is
that we actually want to invite
you to come and try them out,
to file bugs on them,
file enhancements that you
think could help the product.
And if you're daring enough,
you can submit patches, too.
So, this is just the nature of
our open source project.
And you can try both the
Web Inspector and Drisera if you download
the Nightly at nightly.webkit.org.
And basically,
more info about these tools
are available at our website,
webkit.org.
And please file bugs
under those components.
Thank you.